




1)

Course_Title:
IS 452AG/AU 2019 Syllabus
Instructor information
•	Instructor: Nigel Bosch
•	Office: 4040 NCSA (National Center for Supercomputing Applications)
•	Email: pnb@illinois.edu

Course description
This course covers the common data and document processing constructs and programming concepts used in library and information science. The history, strengths and weaknesses of the techniques are evaluated in the context of our discipline. These constructs and techniques form the basis of applications in areas such as bibliographic records management, full text management and multimedia. No prior programming background is assumed. The first half of the course will focus on programming essentials in Python, and the second half will have us explore other applications and how to integrate the fundamentals to solve more complex problems.
Informal learning goals
The following are more 'educational wins' rather than formal learning goals. Of course I hope that you learn how to program in this class, but not everyone taking the course wants to program after taking the class. So why is this still a valuable class for you to take? Read on.
Minimal Wins
•	Evaluate programming book and resource searches and/or bookstore selections
•	Understand some memes you didn’t before
•	Run a reference interview for a patron who comes to you wanting to learn how to program
•	Critically evaluate or write a reality-based technical job description
•	Speak confidently about technical concepts and tools in consultations or job interviews
Moderate Wins
•	Hold stronger & more productive conversations with developers
•	Act as a bridge between programmers and non-programmers (this is a false binary, but I'll deal with it for the sake of brevity)
•	Confidently engage with developers and other IT staff with technical jargon and detail
•	Detect vendor hand waving and other crap
•	Evaluate the usefulness and applicability of potential technical tools (e.g. an open source command line tool)
Big Wins
•	Identify a programming problem and take steps toward writing a program to solve it
•	Make use of more technical tools, or technical features of tools you currently use (e.g. SQL in Access, RegEx in text editors, etc.)
•	Continue self study of programming
•	Succeed in further programming coursework
•	Do some coding!
Class Time, Office Hours, and Lab Time
•	Regular class times:
o	Live session attendance is a requirement for all enrolled students.
o	9:00am - 11:00am Wednesdays in Information Sciences room 53
o	(Optional) Lab/office hours: 11:00am - 12:00pm in our classroom, directly following class. This hour will be used for traditional office hours and optional lab time.
•	Make an appointment to meet:
o	Feel free to send an email to the instructor or TA.


2)

Course_Title:


Web Development Using Application Frameworks


Course_Number

..

Other Stuff:


IS590WFO
Instructor
Kevin Trainor
Teaching Assistant
Roger Ho
Contacting the Instructor or Teaching Assistant
The preferred method for contacting either Roger or me is by entering a request using
the Request Center portal for this course. PLEASE, DO NOT send requests to our
regular email addresses.
The Request Center portal for this course has been implemented using the iCourse –
JIRA Service Desk. If you are new to using the service desk, please visit the introduction
page for instructions and tips.
On an emergency basis, you may contact me using my mobile phone number:
847-650-9706.
Online Lab Sessions
On Tuesday evenings from 6:30 PM to 7:30 PM, we will have an optional Online Lab
Session using the Blackboard Collaborate Ultra platform. These sessions are a great
opportunity to get help with your coding assignments, your Framework Evaluation Paper,
or with your Final Project. Lab Sessions will take place in our normal Blackboard
Collaborate Ultra classroom. Please use a headset.

..
Course_Description


A course in the use and evaluation of Web application frameworks for system architects,
designers, and developers.

Detailed Course Description


Today, many substantial Web applications are designed and built using a Web
application framework. These frameworks provide standard ways to build and deploy
Web applications that can increase developer productivity, increase software quality,
and reduce application maintenance. Web frameworks typically use architectural
patterns like Model-View-Controller (MVC) to separate code that implements the data
model, business rules, and user interface. Frequently, they also employ architectural
patterns like a database persistence layer to greatly simplify database coding within the
Web application. Other common features of Web application frameworks include built-in
support for Web page templating, user authentication/authorization, content caching,
URL mapping, session management, Web services, and various content management
features.
IS590WFO – Web Development Using Application Frameworks Page 2 of 7
This course will explore the common features of Web application frameworks in general
while providing hands-on experience using Django, a popular open-source Web
application framework based on Python. Students will complete a series of coding
assignments that build Django design/development/deployment skills while providing
insights into standard features of Web application frameworks. In the final project, each
student will design and build a full-featured Django Web application to address a
problem of her/his own choosing.
The audience for this course includes system architects, designers, and developers who
wish to consider a Web application framework as a platform for creating substantial Web
applications. These include business applications, digital libraries, institutional
repositories, and research data repositories, as well as workflow applications for data
collection, data extraction, data cleaning, and data analysis.
Prerequisites
• Experience in creating static Web sites using HTML and CSS
• Experience in Python programming (IS452 or equivalent)
• Experience in creating dynamic Web sites using tools like PHP is helpful but not
required.
• Experience in using relational databases is helpful but not required.


Course_Outcomes


After completing this course, you should be able to:
1. Identify the advantages of using a Web application framework when designing,
developing, and deploying a Web application.
2. Identify common features of Web application frameworks in general.
3. Explain how the specific features of Django correlate with common Web
application framework features.
4. Design, code, test, and deploy Web applications that use Django features for:
a. Models
b. Templates
c. URL Mapping
d. Views
e. Forms
f. User authentication/authorization
g. Session management
5. Design, code, test, and deploy a full-featured Django application to solve a
problem of your own choosing.
6. Evaluate the suitability of a particular Web application framework based upon an
anticipated set of non-functional requirements.
Instructional Methods
• Reading
• Online lecture/discussion sessions using Blackboard Collaborate Ultra
• Video tutorials
• Text-based online discussion via Moodle forums
• Online Lab Sessions using Blackboard Collaborate Ultra
• Designing, coding, testing, and deploying a full-featured Django application
IS590WFO – Web Development Using Application Frameworks Page 3 of 7
Required Text
Pinkham, A. (2016). Django Unleashed. Pearson Education.
Print ISBN: 9780321985071
eBook ISBN: 9780133812398
Technology Requirements
You will be completing coding assignments and conducting your final project using your
own computer. I recommend that you use a computer that runs Windows 10 or a recent
release of MacOS. While the software that we will be using for this course does run on
Linux computers, there will be substantially less technical support available for Linux. If
you want to use a Linux computer for your coursework, please contact me first.
You will be installing the following software on your computers for this class:
• The PyCharm integrated development environment (IDE) for Python
• The Anaconda open data science platform for Python
• The Git version control system
• The SourceTree client for Git
You will be deploying some of your coding assignment solutions to a cloud-based
Django hosting facility provided by Python Anywhere. Free accounts are available from
Python Anywhere that have all of the capabilities that you will need during the course.
All of the software and services that you will be using are free for your use during this
class. I have recorded detailed tutorial videos to help you download, install, and begin
using the required software on computers running Windows 10 and recent releases of
MacOS. Links to these resources will be provided in our Weekly Schedule.
Course Schedule
The schedule for this course will be available via our Weekly Schedule at:
https://courseinfo.ligent.net/2018fa/_illinois/is590wfo/index.html
The course schedule is always subject to reasonable change to account for changes in
circumstance and to correct errors. When I make changes to the schedule, I will
announce them via the Moodle Announcements Forum.


Course_Elements


1. Readings
Required readings will be assigned from the resources listed above and from other
resources that will be identified in the Weekly Schedule. Generally, readings are
chosen to accompany our online lecture/discussion session for the week. So, you
should expect to complete the readings before class.
Optional readings will be assigned from time to time. These will typically represent
alternate expressions of the same material, or interesting supplementary topics.
IS590WFO – Web Development Using Application Frameworks Page 4 of 7
2. Tutorial Videos
I will be providing a series of tutorial videos that show a skill being practiced using
the PyCharm IDE and related software tools. Typically, you will be assigned a
parallel coding assignment in the same week that can be accomplished using the
approach demonstrated in the video.
3. Coding Assignments
There will be Coding Assignments approximately weekly. As mentioned above,
coding assignments will often be paired with tutorial videos. These should allow you
to complete your Coding Assignment using the same approach that has been
demonstrated in the video.
A Moodle dropbox will be provided for submitting each assignment. Instructions for
each Coding Assignment and a grading rubric will be published in the Weekly
Schedule.
Solutions to the Coding Assignments will be reviewed at the start of our next class. I
will ask for one or two student volunteers to present their work and we will discuss it
(constructively and supportively). Then, I will present my version of the assignment
solution (never perfect) and we will discuss that as well. The real learning comes
from the combination of having attempted to solve the coding assignment and the
subsequent discussion. Those who have really done the work before the class
discussion of the assignment will get that benefit. Those who wait and do the work
later will get a greatly reduced benefit. Having seen our solutions, they will miss out
on the benefit of having tackled one of these problems on their own.
A major goal for this course is to build your proficiency in self-evaluation of your work.
To build this skill, I will expect you to be able to estimate your grade on each Coding
Assignment. After each Coding Assignment, we will review solutions during our next
class. Further, I will publish a copy of my solution on our Moodle page. These
published solutions and solution discussions will serve as your primary feedback for
the Coding Assignment.
As secondary feedback, your Coding Assignment submissions will be graded and
commented upon. This feedback will be published to the Moodle assignment
submission activity within approximately 2 weeks.
While separate grading rubric and assignment submission instructions documents
will be published, the following is a summary of the grading rubric features for coding
assignments:
• 10 points will be awarded for submitting a single, properly named, properly
organized, and gradable file to the proper Moodle assignment submission
activity.
• A minimum of 75 points will be awarded for submissions that are submitted
on time, and that demonstrate a good faith effort on all parts of the
assignment. Late submissions will be awarded 74 points or fewer in this
category.
IS590WFO – Web Development Using Application Frameworks Page 5 of 7
The implication of this grading scheme is that you can expect a score of 85 or higher
on all Coding Assignments that meet both of these criteria.
4. Participation
a. You are expected to read all of the posts made in all of the discussion forums
and respond with short posts when appropriate.
b. On Tuesday evenings from 6:30 PM to 7:30 PM, we will have an optional
Online Lab Session using the Blackboard Collaborate Ultra platform. For more
details, see Online Lab Sessions above.
Participation grades will be based upon the number of participation points earned
during the semester. These are the activities through which you can earn
participation points:
5. Framework Evaluation Paper
Each student will write a paper presenting the conclusions of their evaluation of the
suitability of a candidate Web application framework (other than Django) for a set of
functional and non-functional requirements which they could reasonably expect to
encounter in the workplace. Your paper should be about 1500 to 2000 words. In
addition, you will need to cite a minimum of 10 sources.
Detailed instructions and a grading rubric for the Framework Evaluation Paper will
be published separately.
6. Final Project
You will be expected to plan, gather requirements for, design, code, test, and
deploy a Web application using Django as your Final Project. Detailed instructions
and grading rubric for the Final Project will be published separately. The following
are highlights from those requirements:
• The Web application should fully demonstrate the Web application
framework features covered in the class.
• The Web application should include significant add/change/delete database
functionality.
• The Web application should be sufficiently interesting to you that you are
likely to continue to develop and maintain after the course is complete.


3)
Course_Title:


IS590ADV Advanced Data Viz
This is the course website for IS590ADV in Spring 2019
•	View On GitHub
Syllabus
•	Semester, YYYY
•	LIS 242, 1:00PM-3:50PM, Mondays
•	4 Credit Hours
•	Instructor: Matthew Turk
•	Email: mjturk@illinois.edu
•	Office: 222 LIS (501 E Daniel)
•	Office Hour: By appointment
•	Preferred Contact Method: email	•	Shared Papers: https://paperpile.com/shared/W47CwV

Course Description
In this seminar-style course we will discuss advanced topics in visualization techniques. This will cover topics such as the history of visualization techniques, the perception and understanding of visual information, and new frontiers in displaying quantitative information. We will explore the modern technical stack for creating and sharing visualizations, including topics in javascript, python, and reactive frameworks.
Course Overview
This course will include a number of technical tasks, but will additionally be focused on the aesthetic and high-level understanding of visualization. We will discuss in depth new trends in visualization as well as evidence-based studies of how to develop better visualizations.
Students are expected to have laptops with them, as well as access to Python installations, and will be encouraged to participate in class. Homework will largely be in the form of projects and open-ended assignments. Class participation will not determine grades but is expected to guide discussions; students are expected to participate and share thoughts, ideas, and suggestions.
Pre- and Co-requisites
No explicit prerequisites are required. Students are expected to have taken standard programming courses. Students are expected to either be familiar with, or be prepared to familiarize themselves with, Python, Javascript, GitHub, and other computational tools. Haven taken Data Viz (IS590DV) is optional, but encouraged.
Land Acknowledgment
As a land-grant institution, the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign has a responsibility to acknowledge the historical context in which it exists. In order to remind ourselves and our community, we will begin this event with the following statement. We are currently on the lands of the Peoria, Kaskaskia, Peankashaw, Wea, Miami, Mascoutin, Odawa, Sauk, Mesquaki, Kickapoo, Potawatomi, Ojibwe, and Chickasaw Nations. It is necessary for us to acknowledge these Native Nations and for us to work with them as we move forward as an institution. Over the next 150 years, we will be a vibrant community inclusive of all our differences, with Native peoples at the core of our efforts.
More information can be found on the Chancellor’s Website.
Course Overview
The central themes of the course are:
1.	What are currently-understood best practices for constructing meaningful and beautiful visualizations?
2.	What is the “cutting edge” of software stacks for visualization?
3.	What theoretical approaches to visualization can we utilize to improve our ability to understand data?
Course Materials
There is no textbook for this course. All course materials will be posted to the GitHub repository at https://github.com/UIUC-iSchool-DataViz/spring2019-adv/
As the course progresses, a list of recommended readings will be generated for each class. These will be included in the course materials repository, and students are encouraged to fork that repository and issue pull requests to add suggested readings.
About your instructor
Matthew Turk is an Assistant Professor at the School of Information Sciences. His training was in Astronomy, where he conducted simulations of the formation of the first stars in the Universe. This led him to work on developing an analysis and visualization package for volumetric data, yt, which has been used for quantiative and qualitative visualization of data from several disciplines.



4)
Course_Title:


Makerspace

Overview
This course will introduce you to the principles and tools behind the maker movement.  The maker movement is built on creative exploration of technology.  Makers, in general, are individuals who create or produce something, often combining technology with DIY.  Makerspaces are laboratories created to provide a physical space for makers to come together in the generation, design, and fabrication of these products. In this class we ask you to explore yourself as a maker.  You will learn a variety of rapid prototyping and fabrication techniques placing emphasis on the design and learning processes, along with self-reflection.

Periodically  you will be provided a general project prompt and set to work with a tool area, at the the CU Community Fab Lab, in response to a simple design exploration challenge. Over the course of the semester you will have an opportunity to become familiarity with the basics of several advanced small-scale manufacturing tools, such as laser engravers, electronic cutters, e-textiles, 3D printers/scanners and small board electronics.

You will be split into smaller lab working groups for your hands-on lab time at the Champaign Urbana Community Fab Lab.  These groups will be learning communities for you, but you won't be responsible for doing graded work with this group. You are also expected to come into open hours at the Fab Lab to work on projects by seeking assistance from staff and one another each week.

There will be guest speakers in-class (some we will meet elsewhere) to give you a broader perspective of makers and the maker movement. We may modify speakers based on the class interest and to cover topics as we encounter them.

One main goal of this course is to expose you to fun hands-on assignments that can better prepare them to tackle the kind of projects and challenges you might encounter in the work world, as entrepreneurs or educators, in large companies,  or in settings like small nonprofits.
Expectations
Requisite Experience
This class is designed to be friendly for students who have limited technical background. We expect students to enter with at least basic computer literacy concepts and skills. Assignments will offer opportunities for all students to learn, develop, and apply new skills related to rapid prototyping, programming, and artistic expression. We’re hoping you can all help each other out with your strengths and weaknesses.


We expect you to be willing and able to write. While we won’t have any huge papers many assignments will involve some writing. You’ll have to be able to evaluate what you create and be concise as well as learn how to provide visual annotations. We expect you to put thought into your writing, i.e. write something you would want to read!


Self-driven exploration. Please note that this course will emphasize self-guided learning and time management, students will need to rely on online tutorials and information resources to explore methods and complete much of the work in a rapid-response fashion. You will get the most of out of each assignment by being curious and trying to hack or learn more about the lab activity.  Try answering questions on your own first (Google), then ask a peer, and finally the instructors and Fab Lab staff.
Workload
As you know, this is a 3 hour class but only has 1 hour of scheduled class time.  The other 2 hours will be spent at the Champaign-Urbana Community Fab Lab with your lab group, day & time based on your availability survey results.  We’ll be expecting around (at least) 3 hours of out of class work time from you per week, with some variation depending on where we are in the semester. If you are very new to making or programming you may have to spend additional time exploring and practicing. We know you all lead busy lives and have packed schedules, and we’ll do what we can to remain sensitive to this but still ensure a productive class.
Attendance
Show up to class. Your grade for attendance will be rolled up into participation. If you miss a single class for sickness, death in the family, or other kinds of emergencies you should be fine. If you miss more than one class this will impact your performance and contribution, which then your grade will suffer.


Show up to your group lab time and STAY FOR THE WHOLE TIME PERIOD. If you cannot attend your normal lab session because of a test, interview or sickness, you can arrange with the TA’s to attend another section, but this should not become regular.
Participation
Class will involve discussion, guest lectures, and activities. Lab will involve working through tutorials, projects, peer skill sharing, as well as the explanation of important concepts.  You’ll be expected to be engaged in all of this, at very minimum listening and responding and making, and, for better grade, also collaborating, sharing, questioning and exploring. Some specific examples include:
•	Asking questions when you are confused or when you think that something is incorrect.
•	Answering questions, whether they are asked by the instructor or students.
•	Sharing thoughts, resources or methods during class discussions or on the course discussion forums.
•	Helping others troubleshoot problems or understand concepts.
•	 Visiting us for office hours counts for participation too, but you should still engage in class.
The more people you benefit by your participation, the more credit you get. Come to class with quotes or notes from readings/websites you’d like to talk about, or questions or interesting concepts you’ve discovered.


Don’t be afraid to ask “dumb” or “basic” questions. Often class moves too fast or nomenclature goes undefined. Please ask us to slow down, repeat, or clarify information. Others may be wondering the same thing, but are too afraid to ask.
Flexibility of the Course
This course is designed to meet students' practical needs and therefore has a flexible structure. This means that as your instructors, we are not only open to your suggestions, but strongly encourage them. If you have feedback or preferences, please let us know, either publicly or privately. You must realize, however, that this means our schedule, and even our assignments, may change over the course of the semester. We’ll do our best to fit the course to the needs of the given cohort and stay organized while doing so. In other words, this class is not rigid, but responsive.

Additionally, many concepts in this class will be interpretive and explorative. If you are a person who needs tests with the ‘right answer’ or require the absolute truth found in mathematical certainty this may not be the best course for you. We will be working with fluid and messy concepts and on projects that will have many unknown variables that require students to shift perspectives.
Academic Dishonesty
Any student who we, the instructors, discover to be cheating will automatically and immediately fail the assignment. It is the instructor's discretion whether to report the student's academic dishonesty to university level bodies. Remember, a violation of academic integrity can lead to a student being "suspended or dismissed" from the university (UIUC Student Code Article 1-Student Rights and Responsibilities, Part 4. Academic Integrity, § 1-403 Penalties for Infractions of Academic Integrity). The assignments in this class are very simple and straightforward. It takes minimal effort to do them yourself. Even though they are simple, I hope you all realize the statistical improbability of writing the exact same answer with the exact same spacing, names, etc. as somebody else in the class. Cheating includes, but is not limited to:
•	Copying someone else's work and turning it in as your own work.
•	Someone else's work means someone else's work, whether it is the work of your classmate, the work of some anonymous stranger on the internet, etc. You may not copy someone else's work on the internet and turn it in as your own. We will be doing spot checks on the assignments that are turned in.
•	Copying someone else's work, making minor/cosmetic changes, and turning it in as your own work.
•	Turning in group work without crediting the group or turning in individual work and crediting the group.
•	 Allowing another individual to copy your work, and turn it in as their work.
Any case of intimidation, coercion, etc., will be reported to higher authorities, either campus-level or law enforcement, depending on the situation.

In this course you will often build off of the work of others.  This is commonly called remixing, hacking, or derivative work.  When borrowing the work of others (e.g. images/models, example code, or using an online GUI) you MUST credit your starting point following creative commons license guidelines.
Required Materials
There is no textbook for the class. All readings, videos, and tutorials will be available online or via the Moodle site. We’ve put considerable work into finding material that’s relevant, recent or of persistent value, interesting, and not too long.

You will need to become comfortable consulting online tutorials and information resources for much of the material relevant to this class. While there is no studio fee, you will need to find, purchase, borrow or otherwise provide your own materials if you go beyond the basic starter materials for projects.
Grading
Grades are a part of the certification aspect of attending a university: a fundamentally necessary but secondary function, they are intended to be a kind of tool that encourages and reflects learning. We don’t want you to get lost in concern about your grade, but also want you to know this isn’t going to be a blow-off course. Do the work, invest time and creativity, make strong contributions and you should do just fine. Your breakdown is as follows:
•	Lab assignments – 50%
•	Reading response, iteration/reflection assignment – 16%
•	Participation – 14%
•	Final Project – 20%
Assignments will be graded on a point-based scale that translates directly to its percent. We will take off in half-point increments. Each 24 hour period an assignment is turned in late (starting at the time it is due) it goes down half a point down to a minimum of half-credit. In other words, it’s always worth turning in an assignment no matter how late it is, because you will get some amount of credit. It’s more important to us that you learn and put in the effort. You may, at the instructor’s option, redo an assignment that went badly for more credit.
Assignments
The following is a tentative assignment list.

Lab Activities
Each week you will have a different lab assignment to help familiarize you with a tool, medium or subject area. Some topics will span multiple weeks. For each creation activity you must document and hand-in your work by posting to the class blog.  Blog posts will be due on the day of your lab section, the week after they are introduced to you in section. In other words you will always have a full week or more to work on them.
•	Two or more in-progress images,
•	One completed project image
•	A paragraph of reflection on your making experience.  Use reflection questions for ideas (NO tool based or step-by-step process responses).

Videos, Readings, and Community exploration
Throughout the semester we will ask you to watch videos online, read articles about makers and makerspaces, go to makerspaces on and around campus, and sometimes write responses to these.

Readings (Select 2 & answer reading forum questions for each) - pull from the list at
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1hXNSHZ4IRZd1QqK8OKBwIPfxRPokkPQh?usp=sharing

Iteration Project
Once during the semester you to return to a previous project and improve upon it by incorporating feedback from others and leveraging resources online.

Final Project

INFO 490 ML1 (Undergraduate): Your final project allows you to go deeper into the makerspace through either 1.) the creation of a composite project of your own imagination or 2.) learning a new tool and making an excellent tutorial (written or video) with a sample project.  Your final project consists of:
•	Multiple physical prototypes (or activities example & tutorial)
•	Presentation to the class during the final exam time period
•	Reflection on your final project making experience

INFO 490 ML2 (Graduate):  Your final project asks you to go deeper into one of the aspects of makerspaces that we explored in the course. You may explore a theoretical or pedagogical aspect of makerspaces, but we would still like you to produce a physical object to accompany it. Alternately, you could create a making focused project. In either case (theoretical or physical) you will create of a composite project of your own imagination related to your field of study.  We want you to connect making with something you are passionate about. Students may propose an alternative area of focus for instructor approval.  Your final project consists of:
•	Multiple physical prototypes
•	Presentation to the class during the final exam time period
•	Reflection on your final project making experience
•	A short paper or multimedia (website, video, podcast, game, etc) project on the incorporation or connection between making and your selected academic area and how your project accomplishes this.
Provisional Schedule + Assignments
The latest assignment descriptions will be linked off of the Moodle.

Synopsis (% grade):
1.	Tour + Laser name tag (4%)
2.	Multi-layer vinyl sticker (6%)
3.	Copper tape circuits card (6%)
4.	Reading response (8%)
5.	3D design, scanning and printing (7%)
6.	Sewing and digital embroidery (10%)
7.	Arduino introduction (7%)
8.	Arduino locomoting pom-pom bot (10%)
9.	Iteration assignment (8%)
10.	Final project (20%)
11.	Participation (14%)

Each lab assignment will have reflection questions that engage specific learning objectives. See https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Iyt-N7Yr-lGdvAw0Itf6Qnf-i09lyGToxXJTAQ63ml8/edit  for these.



5)

Course_Title:

IS490DA: Database Administration & Scaling for IS Syllabus for Spring 2019 Last modified:
Jan 4, 2019 School of Information Sciences University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign NOTE:
Details here could be altered during the semester if necessary. Any substantive changes after the semester
begins will be announced in class and/or via our Moodle Forums. Co-Instructors: John Weible jweible@illinois.edu &
Tom Habing thabing@illinois.edu Always check Moodle for office hours, announcements, and course schedule details.
SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES The official course catalog description is: “The course incorporates aspects of database
administration and systems architecture relevant to computational information science work. Given the rise of NOSQL
systems and big data trends in analytics, the course will explore and compare several types of scalable
database engines. Develops practical skills and representative tools for providing reliable and efficient DBMS
infrastructure to support activities like data analytics within a context of production systems. Student teams
will experiment and present findings to the class.” An unofficial description for students and advising: Students
will implement and experiment hands-on with scalable networked database systems in several projects and present
their findings. Database systems we’ll likely use include: Neo4j, ElasticSearch, an SQL cluster, and some experience
with cloud-hosted databases. Students will also choose another type of database system to use in their final project
unit. Also, for external coding that must interface with the databases, students may choose the programming language(s)
to use. PREREQUISITES & ENROLLMENT This is a relatively advanced technical course where you will have to read and
experiment in many ways. Students are expected to have prior knowledge of: • SQL and relational database design
principles (similar to what is taught in IS490DB) • Competence with typical command-line shell tools and operations.
• Competence with installing complex software on Mac OS X, Linux/UNIX, or Windows. • Programming experience, such as from taking at least two programming-focused courses. Since the campus Banner system can’t determine these prerequisites, email jweible@illinois.edu with a brief summary of your relevant background to request enrolling. COURSE STYLE & FORMAT This is not a lecture-style course. There will occasionally be brief lecture segments to introduce a topic, but this is coded as “laboratory / discussion” because our in-class time will be primarily: • Seminar discussions, debates, and situational problem solving • Individual and team technical experimentation • Team presentations of your findings to the class 2/4 490DA Syllabus. Spring 2019 You will be learning on your own and from your peers as well as from the instructors. Student-directed investigations are expected and students will be challenged to collaboratively find or create solutions. EXAMPLE COURSE TOPICS (not in order): • Comparison of types of database systems; factors for selecting a type for different situations • Configuring single-instance & multi-node DBMS • Using cloud hosted databases • Automating and verifying backup procedures • Security concerns and practices, log auditing • Provisioning accounts & ACLs. • End user support • Troubleshooting and performance analysis • Data conversion & bulk data loading • Query types • ACID & related concepts • Automated artificial load testing • Scaling, Reliability, Availability (replication, loadbalancing, verifying fault-tolerance, sharding)





6)

Course_Title:

IS590DV - Data Visualization


Other_Stuff:

This is the course website for IS590 Data Visualization in Spring 2019
•	View On GitHub
Syllabus
•	Spring, 2019
•	126 iSchool, Monday, 9-11:50AM
•	4 Credit Hours
•	Instructor: Andrew Christensen
•	Email: achrist3@illinois.edu
•	Office: 2019 NCSA Building
•	Office Hours: Thursday 9AM - 11AM	•	Instructional Assistant: Arjitha Balaji
•	Email: arjitha2@illinois.edu
•	Office: 52 iSchool
•	Office Hours: Wednesday 10AM - 12noon
•	Instructional Assistant: Krishna Shanker-Rajhan
•	Email: gs10@illinois.edu
•	Office: 52 iSchool
•	Office Hours: Tuesday and Thursday 4PM - 5PM
•	Jupyterhub: https://jupyterhub.ischool.illinois.edu/
•	Slack: https://is590dv-spring2019.slack.com/
•	Moodle: https://courses.ischool.illinois.edu/course/view.php?id=3487

Course_Description:

Data visualization is crucial to conveying information drawn from models, observations or investigations. This course will provide an overview of historical and modern techniques for visualizing data, drawing on quantitative, statistical, and network-focused datasets. Topics will include construction of communicative visualizations, the modern software ecosystem of visualization, and techniques for aggregation and interpretation of data through visualization.Particular attention will be paid to the Python ecosystem and multi-dimensional quantitative datasets.
Course Overview
This course is designed to give practical advice to students on communicating data through visualization. This will involve a considerable amount of programming, and typically this programming will be done in Python. For the most part, our data will be quantitative and multi-dimensional. The course will aim to provide both an understanding of what data visualizations communicate and a set of tools for constructing them yourself.
The course will follow a common pattern within each three-hour instructional session. The first 60-90 minutes will be focused on lecture, where concepts and tools will be introduced; typically, each class will focus on one type of visualization or class of visualization. The remaining time will include exploration of a dataset, which may be independent or in groups, and then a wrap-up session at the end.
Students are expected to have laptops with them, as well as access to Python installations, and will be encouraged to participate in class. Homework will be assigned and collected utilizing the Jupyter nbgrader extension or through other methods specified at time of submission.
Pre- and Co-requisites
None, although basic Python programming experience is assumed. A brief introduction to Python will be presented during the course.


7)

Course_Title:

IS538
Competitive Intelligence & Knowledge Management

Other_Stuff:

Description: IS538, 4 credit hours
Instructor: Dr. Julia Hart
Meeting Time: Thursday, 6 pm – 8 pm
Class Location: iSchool Room 251/Online
Office Hours: By appointment
Telephone: Office (309) 821-6129; Cell (217) 841-6542
Email: hartja@illinois.edu
Course Web Site: http://ischool.illinois.edu


Course_Description:

This course covers two widely accepted practices of business research: Competitive Intelligence (CI) and
Knowledge Management (KM). Some topics covered will include competitive intelligence and knowledge
management objectives, business process analysis, design methods, strategic planning, and innovative solutions.
The course prepares students on how to build a successful knowledge process based on competitive intelligence
for an organization. Emphasis will be on case studies, research, and hands-on learning.
Pre-requisites
There are no pre-requisites for this course; however, you must be an iSchool student to enroll. Additionally, this
course is one of the core recommended classes for the Information Consulting & Knowledge Management
pathway for the MSIM program at the iSchool.
Course Objectives
At the end of the course, the students should be able to:
1) Apply basic principles of business analysis to creating research deliverables,
2) Design and develop research products and services based on clients’ structured and unstructured
research requests
3) Have a clear understanding of competitive intelligence and knowledge management practices at
different types of organizations
4) Understand opportunities and limitations of competitive intelligence and knowledge management for
business researchers
5) Translate complex business research needs into clear knowledge solutions,
6) Design optimal business research processes for an organization, and
7) Understand issues in marketing business research services within an organization.

8)

Course_Title:

LIS559NA: Network Analysis, Spring 2019


Other_Stuff:

Time: Tuesdays 1:00-03:50pm
Location: Room 12a
Instructors: Jana Diesner
 Neeraj Wagh
Contact: Email:
jdiesner@illinois.edu,
nwagh2@illinois.edu
Course Units: 4 GR hours. Open to
graduate students
campus wide
Office hour: Neeraj: Monday and
Friday 1-2pm, room 54
 Jana: Tuesday 4pm-5pm,
room 304, and by
appointment


Course_Description:

1. Short Description
Network Analysis has become a widely adopted approach for studying the interactions between agents,
information, and infrastructures. The strong demand for rigorous expertise and skills in network
analysis has been fueled by the widespread acknowledgement that everything is connected, the
popularity of social networking services, and advances in computational solutions for collecting,
visualizing and analyzing network data.
Realizing that networks are ubiquitous and impact ecosystems including society on many dimensions,
people across domains and sectors have been using the networks perspective to address questions such
as: How does information emerge, spread and vanish in society and online? What do the properties,
functioning and dynamics of networks imply for constructing and managing teams and organizations,
gaining access to information, resources and power, fostering innovation, and protecting critical
infrastructures and individual reputation? Students in this course learn how to answer these questions.
This interdisciplinary course introduces students to fundamental theories, concepts, methods and
applications of network analysis. Students learn how to approach network analysis tasks and projects
in an informed, systematic and analytically rigorous fashion. Students acquire and practice hands-on
skills in collecting, analyzing and visualizing network data. At the end of the course, students will be
able to critically assess network studies, and to solve real-world, network-centric problems.
Image: http://www.bonkersworld.net/organizational-charts/
2
2. Learning Objectives
Completing this course and its requirements should enable you to:
- Understand fundamental concepts and theories from the fields of social network analysis and
network science.
- Apply this knowledge to solve real-world, network-centric problems.
- Use basic and advanced analysis methods and tools to visualize and analyze network data.
- Interpret analysis results.
- Learn computational techniques (e.g., Python) for analyzing network data.
- Design and execute a small-scale network analysis project in a systematic fashion.
- Gain speaking and presentation skills.


9)

Course_Title:


IS 590 BAO | Business Analytics

Course_Description:

COURSE OBJECTIVE
The purpose of this course is to walk the analytics
neophyte through every stage of an analytics project from
initial data collection, to visualization, to predictive modeling
while discussing the tools, methods, and stakeholders
involved along the way. This course is designed as an
introduction to position students for more in-depth iSchool
courses in later semesters.
Using MySQL, students will be introduced to the
fundamentals of relational database design and data
warehousing architecture; learning to use SQL to transform
and manipulate data. Visualization and data summarization
will be discussed as students are introduced to Tableau to
create dynamic narratives that highlight key performance
indicators (KPI’s). Finally, using R, students will learn the
foundational principles of statistics culminating in the
exploration of different predictive modeling techniques.
Because successfully interfacing with stakeholders is vital to
any analytics project, students will also explore approaches
to project management along with several different
techniques for cultivating institutional investment in
analytics programs.
KEYS TO SUCCESS
Due to the introductory nature of the course and its
online format, students will be required to invest a certain
amount of time outside of the classroom each week to
master course content. The successful student will be
independently curious – meaning that they will take the
tools and methods presented in lectures as a starting point
and will expand on them on their own during the week and
while completing course assignments.



Other_Stuff:

Syllabus | Spring 2019
*This Syllabus is subject to change. Any changes will be
announced in class and on the course Moodle.

_______________________________
Instructor: John Gough
Email: jgough2@illinois.edu
_______________________________
Required Texts:
Field, A. P., Miles, J., & Field, Z. (2014).
Discovering statistics using R. London:
Sage.
_______________________________
Location:
Online Blackboard Collaborate
Session.
Blackboard assistance is available at:
https://courses.ischool.illinois.edu/co
urse/view.php?id=3328
Time:
Tuesday’s 7PM – 9PM CST
_______________________________
Tools:
cPanel:
https://cpanel.ischool.illinois.edu
MySQL Workbench:
https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/w
orkbench/
Tableau Desktop:
https://www.tableau.com/academic/s
tudents
Power BI:
https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/
R: https://cran.r-project.org/
R Studio: https://www.rstudio.com/
Course Details
IS 590 BAO | BUSINESS ANALYTICS


10)

Course_Title:

IS 562 AO -- Metadata in Theory & Practice




Course_Description:

Course Description & Objectives:
Metadata plays an increasingly critical role in the creation, distribution, management and use of electronic materials.
This course will combine theoretical examination of the design of metadata schema with their practical application in
a variety of settings. Hands-on experience in the creation of descriptive, administrative and structural metadata,
along with their application in systems such as OAI harvesting, OpenURL resolution systems, and digital repositories,
will help students develop a thorough understanding of current metadata standards as well as such issues as crosswalking
metadata schema, metadata's use in information retrieval and data management applications, and the role of standards
bodies in metadata schema development.



Other_Stuff:

Spring 2019
Thursday, 5:30 - 7:30 P.M.
Online
Instructor:
Prof. Timothy W. Cole
Mathematics Library
216 Altgeld Hall
1409 W. Green St.
Urbana, IL, 61802
t-cole3@illinois.edu
Office Hours: Wednesdays, 11:30 AM - 1:00 PM or by appointment.
Syllabus subject to change at any moment.
 PDF Snapshot of Syllabus as of 20 January 2019File
 News and AnnouncementsForum
 Open DiscussionForum
 Technical Forum

 11)

Course_Title:

IS590MD: Methods for Data Science

Other_Stuff:

Spring 2019
Mondays 1pm-3:50pm
iSchool 53
Instructor:
Vetle Torvik
Office: iSchool 221
Email: vtorvik@illinois.edu;
Office Hours: 10am-noon Tuesdays
Teaching Assistant:
Xiaoliang Jiang
Office: iSchool 211
Email: xjiang36@illinois.edu
Office Hours: TBA


Course_Description:

A dramatic increase in computing power has enabled new areas of data science to develop in statistical
modeling and analysis. These areas cover predictive and descriptive learning and bridge between ideas
and theory in statistics, computer science, and artificial intelligence. We will cover methods including
predictive learning: estimating models from data to predict future outcomes. Regression topics include
linear regression with recent advances using large numbers of variables, smoothing techniques, additive
models, and local regression. Classification topics include linear regression, regularization, logistic
regression, discriminant analysis, splines, support vector machines, generalized additive models, naive
Bayes, mixture models and nearest neighbor methods as time permits. Lastly we develop neural
networks and deep learning techniques, bridging the theory introduced in the earlier parts of the class to
purely empirical methods. We situate the course components in the “data science lifecycle” as part of
the larger set of practices in the discovery and communication of scientific findings.
Prerequisites are LIS542 Data, Stat, Info, or equivalent (e.g. intro probability/stats STAT100, CS361, or
ECON202) and LIS490IDS/CS398ID/STAT490 or CS101 or equivalent; or consent of the instructor.
Linear Algebra recommended at the level of MATH125; Calculus recommended at the level of
MATH220.
Course Objectives
The overall goal of this course is to develop a functional data science perspective of the world. More
specifically, the objectives are:
1. To gain a broad exposure to data science methods through lectures and discussion.
2. To develop a working proficiency in selected data science techniques through lab sessions,
hands-on assignments, and office hours.
3. To nurture the ability to detect opportunities to apply these concepts, principles and techniques in
new scenarios by independent exploration of resources beyond the course materials, and,
optionally, through a course project.
Required Textbook and Software
There is no textbook for the class. Notes and reference materials will

12)

Course_Title:

LIS 590DW: Data Warehousing and Business

Other_Stuff

Intelligence Course Syllabus for Spring 2019
Last modified: January 15, 2019
School of Information Science University
of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
NOTE: Details here will be altered during the semester if necessary. Any substantive changes will be
announced in class and/or via our Moodle Forums.
590DW class meets Thursdays from 1:00pm-3:50pm in Room 131, LIS
Instructor: Michael Wonderlich, mcwonder@uillinois.edu
Please check Moodle for my office hours.
https://courses.ischool.illinois.edu/course/view.php?id=3645

Course_Description

SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES

• Building a data warehousing and business intelligence environment
o What are the primary components
o What are the key services/technology
o What are the primary roles in the project
• Defining the Data Warehouse/Business Intelligence Project
o Requirements gathering
o Requirements analysis
o Understanding the goals
• Designing a Data Warehouse
o Which modelling methodology
 Kimball
 Inmon
o Organizing the data warehouse
o Security the data
o Creating the data model
• Loading the Data Warehouse
o Source-to-Target Maps
o Extract, Transform, Load
o Data Cleansing
o Data Quality
• Basic SQL
• What is Business Intelligence
o Reporting
o Data Analysis
o Data Visualization
o Dashboards
o Predictive Analytics
• Hands-On Practice with
o Business Objects Web Intelligence
2/5
590DW Syllabus. Spring 2019
o Microsoft Power BI
o Tableau Desktop/Server
• Best practices in data visualization
o Creating effective data visualizations
o Using the best tool for the task
o Designing effective dashboards and scorecards
• New technologies in data organization
o Hadoop
o NoSQL
o Unstructured Data
o Data Warehouse Appliances
• Final Project in Data Warehousing or Business Intelligence

13)

Course_Title:

IS590DT: Data Mining Applications

Other_Stuff:

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN
School of Information Sciences
IS590DT: Data Mining Applications
Spring 2019
Wednesdays 9:30am-12:20pm
iSchool 46
Instructors
Vetle Torvik
Office: iSchool 221
Email: vtorvik@illinois.edu;
Office Hours: 10am-noon Tuesdays
Yingjun Guan
Office: iSchool 211
Email: yingjun2@illinois.edu
Office Hours: noon - 2pm Thursdays


Course_Description:

Data mining refers to the process of exploring large datasets with the goal of uncovering interesting patterns. This process
usually involves a number of tasks such as data collection, pre-processing, and characterization; model fitting, selection, and
evaluation; classification, clustering, and prediction. Although data mining has its roots in database management, it has
grown into a discipline that focuses on algorithm design (to ensure computational feasibility) and statistical modeling (to
separate the signal from the noise). As such, it draws heavily upon a variety of other disciplines including statistics, machine
learning, operations research, and information retrieval. This course will cover the major data mining concepts, principles,
and techniques that *every information scientist should know about.* Lectures will introduce and discuss the major
approaches to data mining, computer lab sessions coupled with assignments will provide hands-on experience with these
approaches, and term projects offer the opportunity to use data mining in a novel way. Mathematical detail will be left to the
students who are so inclined.


Course Objectives


The overall goal of this course is to develop a data mining perspective of the world. More specifically,
the objectives are:
1. To gain a broad exposure to data mining concepts and principles through lectures and discussion.
2. To develop a working proficiency in selected data mining techniques through lab sessions,
hands-on assignments, and office hours.
3. To nurture the ability to detect opportunities to apply data mining concepts, principles and
techniques in new scenarios by independent exploration of resources beyond the course
materials, and, optionally, through a course project.
Required Textbook and Software
Witten IH, Frank E, Hall MA. Data Mining: Practical Machine Learning Tools and Techni


14)

Course_Title:

Agile Project Management SP 191IS590APO


Other_Stuff:

Course Syllabus
Course Title
Agile Project Management
Semester
Spring 2019
Course Number
IS590APO
Instructor
Kevin Trainor
Teaching Assistant
Roger Ho


Contacting the Instructor or Teaching Assistant
The preferred method for contacting either Roger or me is by entering a request using
the Request Center portal for this course. PLEASE, DO NOT send requests to our
regular email addresses.
The Request Center portal for this course has been implemented using the iCourse –
JIRA Service Desk. If you are new to using the service desk, please visit the introduction
page for instructions and tips.
On an emergency basis, you may contact me using my mobile phone number:
847-650-9706.
Online Lab Sessions
Starting at the beginning of the semester, we will have an optional Online Lab session
on Thursday evenings from 6:30 PM to 7:30 PM using the Blackboard Collaborate Ultra
platform. These sessions are a great opportunity to get help with project selection, team
formation, skills practice assignments, technical project issues, and agile project
management issues. Lab Sessions will take place in our normal Blackboard Collaborate
Ultra classroom. Please use a headset when joining the lab session.
As the semester progresses, I expect that we might have sufficient time during our
normal Monday class sessions to offer this kind of support during class. If we should
reach that point, I plan to merge the Lab Sessions into our normal Monday class.
Individual Meetings
While Roger and I do not plan to be holding scheduled office hours, you can arrange an
individual online meeting with either of us by submitting an Individual Meeting Request
using the Request Center portal (see Contacting the Instructor or Teaching Assistant
above).
Agile Project Management Page 2 of 8


Course_Description:


This course provides the student with two important opportunities. The first of these
opportunities is to work with a small team of classmates to project manage, gather
requirements for, design, build, test, and install an information system solution for an
actual client. The second opportunity is to learn the language, tools, and techniques of
agile project management. Emphasis will be placed on employing agile software
development practices including automated testing, continuous integration, and testdriven development.
Prerequisites
• Experience in creating static Web sites using HTML and CSS
• Experience in programming (IS452 or equivalent)
• Experience in creating dynamic Web sites using tools like Django, Flask, Drupal, or
PHP is helpful but not required.
• Experience in using relational databases is helpful but not required.

Course Topics
• Modernizing Project Management
• Applying the Agile Manifesto and Principles
• Why Being Agile Works Better
• Agile Approaches
• Agile Environments in Action
• Agile Behaviors in Action
• Defining the Product Vision and Product Roadmap
• Planning Releases and Sprints
• Working Throughout the Day
• Showcasing Work, Inspecting, and Adapting
• Preparing for Release
• Source Code Version Control Using Git
Agile Project Management Page 3 of 8
Course Objectives
• Understand the nature of projects and project management.
• Understand the differences in approach between agile project management and
traditional project management.
• Identify and explain the key elements of agile project management.
• Organize and conduct a small project as part of an agile project team.





15)

Course_Title:

IS542A
Data, Statistical Models and Information


Other_Stuff:

Spring 2019
Tuesdays, 9:30am­12:30pm, Room 126
Instructor:  Jill Naiman
Office hours:  <TBD>
Email:  jnaiman@illinois.edu


Course_Description:


An introduction to statistical and probabilistic models as they pertain to quantifying
information, assessing information quality, and principled application of information to
decision­making. The increasing prevalence of massive data sets and falling
computational barriers have rendered statistical modeling an integral part of
contemporary information management. With this in mind, this class prepares students
to select and properly undertake commonly encountered modeling tasks. The course
reviews relevant results from probability theory, emphasizing the merits and limitations
of familiar probability distributions as vehicles for modeling information. Subsequent
consideration includes parametric and non­parametric predictive models, as well as a
discussion of extensions of these models for unsupervised learning. Throughout these
discussions, the course focuses on model selection and gauging model quality.
Applications of statistical and probabilistic models to tasks in information management
(e.g. prediction, ranking, and data reduction) are emphasized.


Learning_Objectives:


Students will demonstrate an understanding of probability theory and statistical learning
by building and evaluating models of a diverse range of data sets. By the end of the
course students will have basic concepts of what constitutes a “good” statistical
question, what one can feasibly learn and predict with data, and an overview of toolsets
and methods to answer elementary statistical questions.  In particular, each student will
be able to:
● Articulate the role of marginal, joint, and conditional probability in modeling
processes involving information.
● Select, parameterize, and compare probability distributions as vehicles for
modeling information.
● Specify, estimate and evaluate elementary parametric statistical models.
● Specify, estimate and evaluate elementary non­parametric statistical models.
● Articulate professional responsibilities with respect to creating, describing and
using models built from data.
1/9/2019 IS542A Syllabus - Google Docs
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wBIFndDBRvik-KLUKz7Z4PNpoH0O2CvZZHy5r62oBcA/edit 2/7

Pre_Reqs:

Pre­ and Co­requisite

IS452 Foundations of Information Processing is strongly recommended as a
prerequisite. A highly motivated student could pass this course without IS452 (so the
prerequisite is not enforced), but programming will not be covered in this course.
Students who have not completed an introductory course on statistics will need to come
up to speed quickly on material covered early in the semester.
Required Texts
James, G., Witten, D., Hastie, T., and Tibshirani, R. (2013)  An Introduction to Statistical
Learning.  New York: Springer. [ abbreviated ISL ]
http://www­bcf.usc.edu/~gareth/ISL/
Diez, D., Barr, C., and Cetinkaya­Rundel, M. (2015)  OpenIntro Statistics  Third Edition,
[available online,  https://www.openintro.org/stat/textbook.php?stat_book=os ,
abbreviated OIS ]
Venables, W.N., Smith, D.M and the R Core Team (2012)  An Introduction to R .
[available online,  http://cran.r­project.org/doc/manuals/R­intro.pdf ,  abbreviated ITR ]
