


Makerspace

Course_Description

Overview
This course will introduce you to the principles and tools behind the maker movement.  The maker movement is built on creative exploration of technology.  Makers, in general, are individuals who create or produce something, often combining technology with DIY.  Makerspaces are laboratories created to provide a physical space for makers to come together in the generation, design, and fabrication of these products. In this class we ask you to explore yourself as a maker.  You will learn a variety of rapid prototyping and fabrication techniques placing emphasis on the design and learning processes, along with self-reflection.

Periodically  you will be provided a general project prompt and set to work with a tool area, at the the CU Community Fab Lab, in response to a simple design exploration challenge. Over the course of the semester you will have an opportunity to become familiarity with the basics of several advanced small-scale manufacturing tools, such as laser engravers, electronic cutters, e-textiles, 3D printers/scanners and small board electronics.

You will be split into smaller lab working groups for your hands-on lab time at the Champaign Urbana Community Fab Lab.  These groups will be learning communities for you, but you won't be responsible for doing graded work with this group. You are also expected to come into open hours at the Fab Lab to work on projects by seeking assistance from staff and one another each week.

There will be guest speakers in-class (some we will meet elsewhere) to give you a broader perspective of makers and the maker movement. We may modify speakers based on the class interest and to cover topics as we encounter them.

One main goal of this course is to expose you to fun hands-on assignments that can better prepare them to tackle the kind of projects and challenges you might encounter in the work world, as entrepreneurs or educators, in large companies,  or in settings like small nonprofits.
Expectations
Requisite Experience
This class is designed to be friendly for students who have limited technical background. We expect students to enter with at least basic computer literacy concepts and skills. Assignments will offer opportunities for all students to learn, develop, and apply new skills related to rapid prototyping, programming, and artistic expression. We’re hoping you can all help each other out with your strengths and weaknesses.


We expect you to be willing and able to write. While we won’t have any huge papers many assignments will involve some writing. You’ll have to be able to evaluate what you create and be concise as well as learn how to provide visual annotations. We expect you to put thought into your writing, i.e. write something you would want to read!


Self-driven exploration. Please note that this course will emphasize self-guided learning and time management, students will need to rely on online tutorials and information resources to explore methods and complete much of the work in a rapid-response fashion. You will get the most of out of each assignment by being curious and trying to hack or learn more about the lab activity.  Try answering questions on your own first (Google), then ask a peer, and finally the instructors and Fab Lab staff.
Workload
As you know, this is a 3 hour class but only has 1 hour of scheduled class time.  The other 2 hours will be spent at the Champaign-Urbana Community Fab Lab with your lab group, day & time based on your availability survey results.  We’ll be expecting around (at least) 3 hours of out of class work time from you per week, with some variation depending on where we are in the semester. If you are very new to making or programming you may have to spend additional time exploring and practicing. We know you all lead busy lives and have packed schedules, and we’ll do what we can to remain sensitive to this but still ensure a productive class.
Attendance
Show up to class. Your grade for attendance will be rolled up into participation. If you miss a single class for sickness, death in the family, or other kinds of emergencies you should be fine. If you miss more than one class this will impact your performance and contribution, which then your grade will suffer.


Show up to your group lab time and STAY FOR THE WHOLE TIME PERIOD. If you cannot attend your normal lab session because of a test, interview or sickness, you can arrange with the TA’s to attend another section, but this should not become regular.
Participation
Class will involve discussion, guest lectures, and activities. Lab will involve working through tutorials, projects, peer skill sharing, as well as the explanation of important concepts.  You’ll be expected to be engaged in all of this, at very minimum listening and responding and making, and, for better grade, also collaborating, sharing, questioning and exploring. Some specific examples include:
•	Asking questions when you are confused or when you think that something is incorrect.
•	Answering questions, whether they are asked by the instructor or students.
•	Sharing thoughts, resources or methods during class discussions or on the course discussion forums.
•	Helping others troubleshoot problems or understand concepts.
•	 Visiting us for office hours counts for participation too, but you should still engage in class.
The more people you benefit by your participation, the more credit you get. Come to class with quotes or notes from readings/websites you’d like to talk about, or questions or interesting concepts you’ve discovered.


Don’t be afraid to ask “dumb” or “basic” questions. Often class moves too fast or nomenclature goes undefined. Please ask us to slow down, repeat, or clarify information. Others may be wondering the same thing, but are too afraid to ask.
Flexibility of the Course
This course is designed to meet students' practical needs and therefore has a flexible structure. This means that as your instructors, we are not only open to your suggestions, but strongly encourage them. If you have feedback or preferences, please let us know, either publicly or privately. You must realize, however, that this means our schedule, and even our assignments, may change over the course of the semester. We’ll do our best to fit the course to the needs of the given cohort and stay organized while doing so. In other words, this class is not rigid, but responsive.

Additionally, many concepts in this class will be interpretive and explorative. If you are a person who needs tests with the ‘right answer’ or require the absolute truth found in mathematical certainty this may not be the best course for you. We will be working with fluid and messy concepts and on projects that will have many unknown variables that require students to shift perspectives.
Academic Dishonesty
Any student who we, the instructors, discover to be cheating will automatically and immediately fail the assignment. It is the instructor's discretion whether to report the student's academic dishonesty to university level bodies. Remember, a violation of academic integrity can lead to a student being "suspended or dismissed" from the university (UIUC Student Code Article 1-Student Rights and Responsibilities, Part 4. Academic Integrity, § 1-403 Penalties for Infractions of Academic Integrity). The assignments in this class are very simple and straightforward. It takes minimal effort to do them yourself. Even though they are simple, I hope you all realize the statistical improbability of writing the exact same answer with the exact same spacing, names, etc. as somebody else in the class. Cheating includes, but is not limited to:
•	Copying someone else's work and turning it in as your own work.
•	Someone else's work means someone else's work, whether it is the work of your classmate, the work of some anonymous stranger on the internet, etc. You may not copy someone else's work on the internet and turn it in as your own. We will be doing spot checks on the assignments that are turned in.
•	Copying someone else's work, making minor/cosmetic changes, and turning it in as your own work.
•	Turning in group work without crediting the group or turning in individual work and crediting the group.
•	 Allowing another individual to copy your work, and turn it in as their work.
Any case of intimidation, coercion, etc., will be reported to higher authorities, either campus-level or law enforcement, depending on the situation.

In this course you will often build off of the work of others.  This is commonly called remixing, hacking, or derivative work.  When borrowing the work of others (e.g. images/models, example code, or using an online GUI) you MUST credit your starting point following creative commons license guidelines.
Required Materials
There is no textbook for the class. All readings, videos, and tutorials will be available online or via the Moodle site. We’ve put considerable work into finding material that’s relevant, recent or of persistent value, interesting, and not too long.

You will need to become comfortable consulting online tutorials and information resources for much of the material relevant to this class. While there is no studio fee, you will need to find, purchase, borrow or otherwise provide your own materials if you go beyond the basic starter materials for projects.
Grading
Grades are a part of the certification aspect of attending a university: a fundamentally necessary but secondary function, they are intended to be a kind of tool that encourages and reflects learning. We don’t want you to get lost in concern about your grade, but also want you to know this isn’t going to be a blow-off course. Do the work, invest time and creativity, make strong contributions and you should do just fine. Your breakdown is as follows:
•	Lab assignments – 50%
•	Reading response, iteration/reflection assignment – 16%
•	Participation – 14%
•	Final Project – 20%
Assignments will be graded on a point-based scale that translates directly to its percent. We will take off in half-point increments. Each 24 hour period an assignment is turned in late (starting at the time it is due) it goes down half a point down to a minimum of half-credit. In other words, it’s always worth turning in an assignment no matter how late it is, because you will get some amount of credit. It’s more important to us that you learn and put in the effort. You may, at the instructor’s option, redo an assignment that went badly for more credit.
Assignments
The following is a tentative assignment list.

Lab Activities
Each week you will have a different lab assignment to help familiarize you with a tool, medium or subject area. Some topics will span multiple weeks. For each creation activity you must document and hand-in your work by posting to the class blog.  Blog posts will be due on the day of your lab section, the week after they are introduced to you in section. In other words you will always have a full week or more to work on them.
•	Two or more in-progress images,
•	One completed project image
•	A paragraph of reflection on your making experience.  Use reflection questions for ideas (NO tool based or step-by-step process responses).

Videos, Readings, and Community exploration
Throughout the semester we will ask you to watch videos online, read articles about makers and makerspaces, go to makerspaces on and around campus, and sometimes write responses to these.

Readings (Select 2 & answer reading forum questions for each) - pull from the list at
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1hXNSHZ4IRZd1QqK8OKBwIPfxRPokkPQh?usp=sharing

Iteration Project
Once during the semester you to return to a previous project and improve upon it by incorporating feedback from others and leveraging resources online.

Final Project

INFO 490 ML1 (Undergraduate): Your final project allows you to go deeper into the makerspace through either 1.) the creation of a composite project of your own imagination or 2.) learning a new tool and making an excellent tutorial (written or video) with a sample project.  Your final project consists of:
•	Multiple physical prototypes (or activities example & tutorial)
•	Presentation to the class during the final exam time period
•	Reflection on your final project making experience

INFO 490 ML2 (Graduate):  Your final project asks you to go deeper into one of the aspects of makerspaces that we explored in the course. You may explore a theoretical or pedagogical aspect of makerspaces, but we would still like you to produce a physical object to accompany it. Alternately, you could create a making focused project. In either case (theoretical or physical) you will create of a composite project of your own imagination related to your field of study.  We want you to connect making with something you are passionate about. Students may propose an alternative area of focus for instructor approval.  Your final project consists of:
•	Multiple physical prototypes
•	Presentation to the class during the final exam time period
•	Reflection on your final project making experience
•	A short paper or multimedia (website, video, podcast, game, etc) project on the incorporation or connection between making and your selected academic area and how your project accomplishes this.
Provisional Schedule + Assignments
The latest assignment descriptions will be linked off of the Moodle.

Synopsis (% grade):
1.	Tour + Laser name tag (4%)
2.	Multi-layer vinyl sticker (6%)
3.	Copper tape circuits card (6%)
4.	Reading response (8%)
5.	3D design, scanning and printing (7%)
6.	Sewing and digital embroidery (10%)
7.	Arduino introduction (7%)
8.	Arduino locomoting pom-pom bot (10%)
9.	Iteration assignment (8%)
10.	Final project (20%)
11.	Participation (14%)

Each lab assignment will have reflection questions that engage specific learning objectives. See https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Iyt-N7Yr-lGdvAw0Itf6Qnf-i09lyGToxXJTAQ63ml8/edit  for these.



5)


