

IS490DA: Database Administration & Scaling for IS Syllabus for Spring 2019 Last modified:
Jan 4, 2019 School of Information Sciences University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign NOTE:
Details here could be altered during the semester if necessary. Any substantive changes after the semester
begins will be announced in class and/or via our Moodle Forums. Co-Instructors: John Weible jweible@illinois.edu &
Tom Habing thabing@illinois.edu Always check Moodle for office hours, announcements, and course schedule details.

Course_Description

SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES The official course catalog description is: “The course incorporates aspects of database
administration and systems architecture relevant to computational information science work. Given the rise of NOSQL
systems and big data trends in analytics, the course will explore and compare several types of scalable
database engines. Develops practical skills and representative tools for providing reliable and efficient DBMS
infrastructure to support activities like data analytics within a context of production systems. Student teams
will experiment and present findings to the class.” An unofficial description for students and advising: Students
will implement and experiment hands-on with scalable networked database systems in several projects and present
their findings. Database systems we’ll likely use include: Neo4j, ElasticSearch, an SQL cluster, and some experience
with cloud-hosted databases. Students will also choose another type of database system to use in their final project
unit. Also, for external coding that must interface with the databases, students may choose the programming language(s)
to use. PREREQUISITES & ENROLLMENT This is a relatively advanced technical course where you will have to read and
experiment in many ways. Students are expected to have prior knowledge of: • SQL and relational database design
principles (similar to what is taught in IS490DB) • Competence with typical command-line shell tools and operations.
• Competence with installing complex software on Mac OS X, Linux/UNIX, or Windows. • Programming experience, such as from taking at least two programming-focused courses. Since the campus Banner system can’t determine these prerequisites, email jweible@illinois.edu with a brief summary of your relevant background to request enrolling. COURSE STYLE & FORMAT This is not a lecture-style course. There will occasionally be brief lecture segments to introduce a topic, but this is coded as “laboratory / discussion” because our in-class time will be primarily: • Seminar discussions, debates, and situational problem solving • Individual and team technical experimentation • Team presentations of your findings to the class 2/4 490DA Syllabus. Spring 2019 You will be learning on your own and from your peers as well as from the instructors. Student-directed investigations are expected and students will be challenged to collaboratively find or create solutions. EXAMPLE COURSE TOPICS (not in order): • Comparison of types of database systems; factors for selecting a type for different situations • Configuring single-instance & multi-node DBMS • Using cloud hosted databases • Automating and verifying backup procedures • Security concerns and practices, log auditing • Provisioning accounts & ACLs. • End user support • Troubleshooting and performance analysis • Data conversion & bulk data loading • Query types • ACID & related concepts • Automated artificial load testing • Scaling, Reliability, Availability (replication, loadbalancing, verifying fault-tolerance, sharding)





6)


