

IS590MD: Methods for Data Science

Other_Stuff:

Spring 2019
Mondays 1pm-3:50pm
iSchool 53
Instructor:
Vetle Torvik
Office: iSchool 221
Email: vtorvik@illinois.edu;
Office Hours: 10am-noon Tuesdays
Teaching Assistant:
Xiaoliang Jiang
Office: iSchool 211
Email: xjiang36@illinois.edu
Office Hours: TBA


Course_Description:

A dramatic increase in computing power has enabled new areas of data science to develop in statistical
modeling and analysis. These areas cover predictive and descriptive learning and bridge between ideas
and theory in statistics, computer science, and artificial intelligence. We will cover methods including
predictive learning: estimating models from data to predict future outcomes. Regression topics include
linear regression with recent advances using large numbers of variables, smoothing techniques, additive
models, and local regression. Classification topics include linear regression, regularization, logistic
regression, discriminant analysis, splines, support vector machines, generalized additive models, naive
Bayes, mixture models and nearest neighbor methods as time permits. Lastly we develop neural
networks and deep learning techniques, bridging the theory introduced in the earlier parts of the class to
purely empirical methods. We situate the course components in the “data science lifecycle” as part of
the larger set of practices in the discovery and communication of scientific findings.
Prerequisites are LIS542 Data, Stat, Info, or equivalent (e.g. intro probability/stats STAT100, CS361, or
ECON202) and LIS490IDS/CS398ID/STAT490 or CS101 or equivalent; or consent of the instructor.
Linear Algebra recommended at the level of MATH125; Calculus recommended at the level of
MATH220.
Course Objectives
The overall goal of this course is to develop a functional data science perspective of the world. More
specifically, the objectives are:
1. To gain a broad exposure to data science methods through lectures and discussion.
2. To develop a working proficiency in selected data science techniques through lab sessions,
hands-on assignments, and office hours.
3. To nurture the ability to detect opportunities to apply these concepts, principles and techniques in
new scenarios by independent exploration of resources beyond the course materials, and,
optionally, through a course project.
Required Textbook and Software
There is no textbook for the class. Notes and reference materials will

12)


