

IS590DT: Data Mining Applications

Other_Stuff:

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN
School of Information Sciences
IS590DT: Data Mining Applications
Spring 2019
Wednesdays 9:30am-12:20pm
iSchool 46
Instructors
Vetle Torvik
Office: iSchool 221
Email: vtorvik@illinois.edu;
Office Hours: 10am-noon Tuesdays
Yingjun Guan
Office: iSchool 211
Email: yingjun2@illinois.edu
Office Hours: noon - 2pm Thursdays


Course_Description:

Data mining refers to the process of exploring large datasets with the goal of uncovering interesting patterns. This process
usually involves a number of tasks such as data collection, pre-processing, and characterization; model fitting, selection, and
evaluation; classification, clustering, and prediction. Although data mining has its roots in database management, it has
grown into a discipline that focuses on algorithm design (to ensure computational feasibility) and statistical modeling (to
separate the signal from the noise). As such, it draws heavily upon a variety of other disciplines including statistics, machine
learning, operations research, and information retrieval. This course will cover the major data mining concepts, principles,
and techniques that *every information scientist should know about.* Lectures will introduce and discuss the major
approaches to data mining, computer lab sessions coupled with assignments will provide hands-on experience with these
approaches, and term projects offer the opportunity to use data mining in a novel way. Mathematical detail will be left to the
students who are so inclined.


Course Objectives


The overall goal of this course is to develop a data mining perspective of the world. More specifically,
the objectives are:
1. To gain a broad exposure to data mining concepts and principles through lectures and discussion.
2. To develop a working proficiency in selected data mining techniques through lab sessions,
hands-on assignments, and office hours.
3. To nurture the ability to detect opportunities to apply data mining concepts, principles and
techniques in new scenarios by independent exploration of resources beyond the course
materials, and, optionally, through a course project.
Required Textbook and Software
Witten IH, Frank E, Hall MA. Data Mining: Practical Machine Learning Tools and Techni


14)


