

LIS559NA: Network Analysis, Spring 2019


Other_Stuff:

Time: Tuesdays 1:00-03:50pm
Location: Room 12a
Instructors: Jana Diesner
 Neeraj Wagh
Contact: Email:
jdiesner@illinois.edu,
nwagh2@illinois.edu
Course Units: 4 GR hours. Open to
graduate students
campus wide
Office hour: Neeraj: Monday and
Friday 1-2pm, room 54
 Jana: Tuesday 4pm-5pm,
room 304, and by
appointment


Course_Description:

1. Short Description
Network Analysis has become a widely adopted approach for studying the interactions between agents,
information, and infrastructures. The strong demand for rigorous expertise and skills in network
analysis has been fueled by the widespread acknowledgement that everything is connected, the
popularity of social networking services, and advances in computational solutions for collecting,
visualizing and analyzing network data.
Realizing that networks are ubiquitous and impact ecosystems including society on many dimensions,
people across domains and sectors have been using the networks perspective to address questions such
as: How does information emerge, spread and vanish in society and online? What do the properties,
functioning and dynamics of networks imply for constructing and managing teams and organizations,
gaining access to information, resources and power, fostering innovation, and protecting critical
infrastructures and individual reputation? Students in this course learn how to answer these questions.
This interdisciplinary course introduces students to fundamental theories, concepts, methods and
applications of network analysis. Students learn how to approach network analysis tasks and projects
in an informed, systematic and analytically rigorous fashion. Students acquire and practice hands-on
skills in collecting, analyzing and visualizing network data. At the end of the course, students will be
able to critically assess network studies, and to solve real-world, network-centric problems.
Image: http://www.bonkersworld.net/organizational-charts/
2
2. Learning Objectives
Completing this course and its requirements should enable you to:
- Understand fundamental concepts and theories from the fields of social network analysis and
network science.
- Apply this knowledge to solve real-world, network-centric problems.
- Use basic and advanced analysis methods and tools to visualize and analyze network data.
- Interpret analysis results.
- Learn computational techniques (e.g., Python) for analyzing network data.
- Design and execute a small-scale network analysis project in a systematic fashion.
- Gain speaking and presentation skills.


9)


