

Agile Project Management SP 191IS590APO


Other_Stuff:

Course Syllabus
Course Title
Agile Project Management
Semester
Spring 2019
Course Number
IS590APO
Instructor
Kevin Trainor
Teaching Assistant
Roger Ho


Contacting the Instructor or Teaching Assistant
The preferred method for contacting either Roger or me is by entering a request using
the Request Center portal for this course. PLEASE, DO NOT send requests to our
regular email addresses.
The Request Center portal for this course has been implemented using the iCourse –
JIRA Service Desk. If you are new to using the service desk, please visit the introduction
page for instructions and tips.
On an emergency basis, you may contact me using my mobile phone number:
847-650-9706.
Online Lab Sessions
Starting at the beginning of the semester, we will have an optional Online Lab session
on Thursday evenings from 6:30 PM to 7:30 PM using the Blackboard Collaborate Ultra
platform. These sessions are a great opportunity to get help with project selection, team
formation, skills practice assignments, technical project issues, and agile project
management issues. Lab Sessions will take place in our normal Blackboard Collaborate
Ultra classroom. Please use a headset when joining the lab session.
As the semester progresses, I expect that we might have sufficient time during our
normal Monday class sessions to offer this kind of support during class. If we should
reach that point, I plan to merge the Lab Sessions into our normal Monday class.
Individual Meetings
While Roger and I do not plan to be holding scheduled office hours, you can arrange an
individual online meeting with either of us by submitting an Individual Meeting Request
using the Request Center portal (see Contacting the Instructor or Teaching Assistant
above).
Agile Project Management Page 2 of 8


Course_Description:


This course provides the student with two important opportunities. The first of these
opportunities is to work with a small team of classmates to project manage, gather
requirements for, design, build, test, and install an information system solution for an
actual client. The second opportunity is to learn the language, tools, and techniques of
agile project management. Emphasis will be placed on employing agile software
development practices including automated testing, continuous integration, and testdriven development.
Prerequisites
• Experience in creating static Web sites using HTML and CSS
• Experience in programming (IS452 or equivalent)
• Experience in creating dynamic Web sites using tools like Django, Flask, Drupal, or
PHP is helpful but not required.
• Experience in using relational databases is helpful but not required.

Course Topics
• Modernizing Project Management
• Applying the Agile Manifesto and Principles
• Why Being Agile Works Better
• Agile Approaches
• Agile Environments in Action
• Agile Behaviors in Action
• Defining the Product Vision and Product Roadmap
• Planning Releases and Sprints
• Working Throughout the Day
• Showcasing Work, Inspecting, and Adapting
• Preparing for Release
• Source Code Version Control Using Git
Agile Project Management Page 3 of 8
Course Objectives
• Understand the nature of projects and project management.
• Understand the differences in approach between agile project management and
traditional project management.
• Identify and explain the key elements of agile project management.
• Organize and conduct a small project as part of an agile project team.





15)


